---
title: Further Notes on Backend for Frontends
description: These are some pertinent quotes from my reading of the Pattern Backends For Frontends article.
date: 2022-04-14
path: /notes-on-frontend-reading
tags: ["frontend", "backend", "micro", "spa", "bff"]
---

In the article ([Pattern: Backends For Frontends](https://samnewman.io/patterns/architectural/bff/)), Sam Newman describes the principles behind the frontend for backend architecture. Listed below are some quotes from the article that I thought were very good. I highly recommend a full reading of this article.

- "Firstly, the affordances of a mobile device are very different. We have less screen real estate, which means we can display less data. Opening lots of connections to server-side resources can drain battery life and limited data plans. And secondly, the nature of the interactions we want to provide on a mobile device can differ drastically. Think of a typical bricks-and-mortar retailer. On a desktop app I might allow you to look at the items for sale, order online or reserve in store. On the mobile device though I might want to allow you scan bar codes to do price comparisons or give you context-based offers while in store. As we've built more and more mobile applications we've come to realise that people use them very differently and therefore the functionality we need to expose will differ too."
- "So in practice, our mobile devices will want to make different calls, fewer calls, and will want to display different (and probably less) data than their desktop counterparts. This means that we need to add additional functionality to our API backend to support our mobile interfaces."
- "Another problem with the general-purpose API backend is that they are by definition providing functionality to multiple, user-facing applications. This means that the single API backend can become a bottleneck when rolling out new delivery, as so many changes are trying to be made to the same deployable artifact."
- "One solution to this problem that I have seen in use at both REA and SoundCloud is that rather than have a general-purpose API backend, instead you have one backend per user experience - or as (ex-SoundClouder) Phil Calçado called it a Backend For Frontend (BFF). Conceptually, you should think of the user-facing application as being two components - a client-side application living outside your perimeter, and a server-side component (the BFF) inside your perimeter."
- "The BFF is tightly coupled to a specific user experience, and will typically be maintained by the same team as the user interface, thereby making it easier to define and adapt the API as the UI requires, while also simplifying process of lining up release of both the client and server components."
- "Pete Hodgson made the observation that BFFs work best when aligned around team boundaries, so team structure should drive how many BFFs you have. So that if you have a single mobile team, you should have one BFF, but if you had separate iOS and Android teams, you'd have separate BFFs."
- "BFFs can be a useful pattern for architectures where there are a small number of backend services. For organisations using a large number of services however they can be essential, as the need to aggregate multiple downstream calls to deliver user functionality increases drastically. In such situations it will be common for a single call in to a BFF to result in multiple downstream calls to microservices."
- "One of the concerns of having a single BFF per user interface is that you can end up with lots of duplication between the BFFs themselves. For example they may end up performing the same types of aggregation, have the same or similar code for interfacing with downstream services etc. Some people react to this by wanting to merge these back together, and so have a general-purpose aggregating Edge API service. This model has proven time and again to lead to highly bloated code with multiple concerns squashed together."
- "I think the old adage of creating an abstraction when you're about to implement something for the 3rd time still feels like a good rule of thumb, even at the service level."
- "For an application which is only providing a web UI, I suspect a BFF will only make sense if and when you have a significant amount of aggregation required on the server-side. Otherwise, I think other UI composition techniques can work just as well without requiring an additional server-side component (I'll hopefully talk about those soon)."
- "The moment that you need to provide specific functionality for a mobile UI or third party though, I would strongly consider using a BFFs for each party from the outset. I might reconsider if the cost of deploying additional services is high, but the separation of concerns that a BFF can bring make it a fairly compelling proposition in most cases. I'd be even more inclined to use a BFF if there is a significant separation between the people building the UI and downstream services, for reasons outlined above."

* All quotes are attributed to this article: [Pattern: Backends For Frontends by Sam Newman](https://samnewman.io/patterns/architectural/bff/)
