---
title: Kanban Summary, Notes, and Tips
description: Details about the Kanban Process
date: 2025-02-28
path: /kanban-details
tags: ["kanban", "process"]
---

## Introduction

Kanban is a team structure where work is organized around a central process the involves a kanban board, WIP limits, and team structure that is similar but slight different than scrum.

### WIP

Each board has a Work in Progress (WIP) limit that prevents the team or individual team members from working on too much at the same time. It also encourages the team to "swarm" to help each other when they cannot pull in a new story.

### Board

- A pull system is used rather than a push system. Typically a ticket will be marked as "ready" for the next process via some sort of flag (color, icon, etc). This tells the next person that they can pull that ticket to their column when they have capacity.

### GIT

- Typically a kanban team works around a trunk-based git structure that encourages continuous integration and continouse delivery. As work is finished it in continually pushed to production. The team will also make use of feature flags in order to prevent work that is not yet ready from being visible by the end users.

### Team Structure

A kanban team is usually made up of a 'Product Manager', 'Developers', and other "makers" (creatives, testers, etc) on the team. The team is will contain every needed members to ensure work continues to move forward..

### Tips

### Meetings

- Daily Standup (15 minutes)
- Backlog Refinement
- Retrospepctive
- Demos
