---
title: Scrum Summary, Notes, and Tips
description: Details about the Scrum Process
date: 2025-02-27
path: /scrum-details
tags: ["scrum", "process"]
---

## Introduction

Scrum is a team structure that is organized around a central group of people with certain meeting rythms. A lot of times a kanban board is used, but it is mostly there for visualizing the work and little restrictions are typically placed on the board itself.

### Board

- Scrum typically uses a "push" system, where a ticket is moved to the next column when it is time for that person to work on it (i.e when a developer is finished coding, he/she would move the ticket to the QA column so testing could be started).

### Sprint

A scrum teams works in a sprint cycle which it typically 1 - 3 weeks long. At the end of this process all of the work that was in the sprint should have been completed and a product feature can be delivered to production. Any unfinished work would be moved back to the sprint backlog and re-proritized for the next sprint.

### GIT

- Typically a scrum team works around a gitflow structure that encourages delivers to production at the end of each sprint.

### Team Structure

A scrum team is usually made up of a 'Product Owner', 'Scrum Master' and 'Developers'. A "developer" would include programmers, designers, testers, etc. The team is "cross-functional" and it can make decisions that are self-directed. All of the needed disciplens for the team are present (developeprs, designers, testers, etc).

### Meetings

- Daily Scrum (15 minutes)
- Sprint Planning
- Sprint Review
- Sprint Retrospective
